---
title: "Did We Learn Anything From the Pandemic?"
date: 2021-06-22T20:17:00-05:00
draft: true
author: "Chase Martin"
tags:
    - covid
---

March 13, 2020 feels like a day out of a different reality. I remember the panic in my wife’s text messages as she rushed to the grocery store to buy us food before we hunkered down for who knows how long. I had anxiously waited for my work to send us home for several weeks before it became obvious that covid was going to be a massive issue. That morning when I arrived at work, something seemed *off*. However around lunch time, my boss was checking in on us and letting us know that he personally was sending us home and he’d deal with the potential blowback later. I grabbed all of the equipment that I could handle and loaded up my car and headed home.

The exact details of what caused March 13 to become the day that Covid became real for me is lost to me now. Was that the day the NBA suspended the season? Was it when Tom Hanks got sick? That’s ancient history now. Honestly a lot of my thoughts of the early days of the pandemic are lost now. Maybe I should have documented it better, but honestly who was thinking that far ahead? I was trying to keep my head above water and make sense of what was happening.

But here we are now in June 2021 and the pandemic in the US is heading toward a weird tail end where vaccinations are up, cases are down, and life is slowly returning to a semblance of normalcy. However that sense of “needing” to return to some sort of normal ignores how wrong the previous life was and gracefully ignores the injustices that happened over the course of the pandemic. Service and front line workers were hardly protected and even harassed by their patrons. Businesses closed from the lack of aid from the federal or local governments.

All of this progress in the US is still ignoring that the virus is still very much raging in other parts of the world especially as more infectious variants take hold. They might even mutate to be able to avoid immunity from the vaccines. Will companies that have started calling employees back have to send people back home if infections start rising again?

As business and people continue to relax their quarantine protocols, I found it important to sit and think about what we learn or did not learn from the previous year. The virus was devastating, yes, but the harder thing to grasp was that a sizable portion of the population was reluctant, if not outright hostile, to the idea of curbing some of their behavior or wearing masks to keep each other safe. I try to stop myself and find the best in people but there is only a certain level of contrarian that I can understand. Outside of the first month or so, did we ever truly shut down? Limit production in any way? Obviously there are a few examples, but Amazon packages were still delivered. Restaurant workers and other workers that don’t have the luxury of a job that allows them to work from home still had to report during the peaks of the pandemic.

My wife and I attended a wedding dinner in early May and honestly was the most whiplash experience I’ve ever lived through. No one except for the servers wore masks. I understand that the science on vaccinations is solid, but it was still a giant departure from the past year where it was expected to wear a mask if you were in close proximity to someone outside of your household. The mother of the bride, that was under the weather by her own admission, didn’t want to hug us to save us from getting sick. My internal voice was screaming at the top of its imaginary lungs. How did we get through this year and learn about how germs are spread for her to only think that not physically touching us was going to keep us safe?

This extends working from home. The second that cases are on a downward trend, companies started making plans for workers to return to the office. I can understand if a large company owns their building why they would want that office space to be put to use, but we’ve proven for over 16 months that people are more than capable of getting their job done at home. Most setups weren’t ideal, believe me I know firsthand, but it worked for the most part. I’ve spent so much time with my family since last spring. We were able to take family walks during lunch. I was able to watch my son learn to walk during the first few weeks of lockdown. Those are life experiences that I never want to give up. The past few months I’ve been able to take advantage of the lack of a commute to work out every day. The idea of going back to an office and being forced to sit at my desk for 40 hours regardless if I’m getting any work done is alien to me.

I don’t have any answers or thoughtful insight about the future. Anyone should know at this point that predicting what will happen next will only lead to disappointment. I just wish as a society we took a few months and reflect on what just happened to us because most epidemiologists agree that this will start to become a regular thing, if not become more frequent. What, if anything, did we truly learn from this pandemic?